README.md, before:

# MakeTaggable
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/make_taggable.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/make_taggable)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/MatthewKennedy/make_taggable.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/MatthewKennedy/make_taggable)
[![Ruby Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/testdouble/standard)
![StandardRB](https://github.com/MatthewKennedy/make_taggable/workflows/StandardRB/badge.svg)
![Tests](https://github.com/MatthewKennedy/make_taggable/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)
MakeTaggable is a fork of acts-as-taggable-on v6.5 with code updates and a new set of migrations. All credit goes to those who contributed before acts-as-taggable-on became MakeTaggable: Michael Bleigh & Joost Baaij.

Why fork acts-as-taggable-on? Act As Taggable On appears stuck with a set of legacy migrations from rails pre [6.0] that added and removed indexes so much that the migrations do not run on a fresh install using MySQL.

For the PostgreSQL users, this is not an issue, but if you have an app or gem that used acts-as-taggable-on, you can no longer test against MySQL, so it seems a fresh start would be useful to clear out any legacy issues and move forward.

## Installation

To use make_taggable, run the followng from the root of your application:

```shell
bundle add make_taggable
```

#### Post Installation

Install migrations

```shell
# For the latest versions :
rails make_taggable_engine:install:migrations
```

Review the generated migrations then migrate :
```shell
rails db:migrate
```

#### For MySql users
You can circumvent at any time the problem of special characters [issue 623](https://github.com/mbleigh/acts-as-taggable-on/issues/623) by setting in an initializer file:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.force_binary_collation = true
```

Or by running this rake task:

```shell
rails make_taggable_engine:tag_names:collate_bin
```

See the Configuration section for more details.

## Usage

Setup

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  make_taggable # Alias for make_taggable :tags
  make_taggable :skills, :interests
end

class UsersController < ApplicationController
  def user_params
    params.require(:user).permit(:name, :tag_list) ## Rails 4 strong params usage
  end
end

@user = User.new(:name => "Bobby")
```

Add and remove a single tag

```ruby
@user.tag_list.add("awesome")   # add a single tag. alias for <<
@user.tag_list.remove("awesome") # remove a single tag
@user.save # save to persist tag_list
```

Add and remove multiple tags in an array

```ruby
@user.tag_list.add("awesome", "slick")
@user.tag_list.remove("awesome", "slick")
@user.save
```

You can also add and remove tags in format of String. This would
be convenient in some cases such as handling tag input param in a String.

Pay attention you need to add `parse: true` as option in this case.

You may also want to take a look at delimiter in the string. The default
is comma `,` so you don't need to do anything here. However, if you made
a change on delimiter setting, make sure the string will match. See
[configuration](#configuration) for more about delimiter.

```ruby
@user.tag_list.add("awesome, slick", parse: true)
@user.tag_list.remove("awesome, slick", parse: true)
```

You can also add and remove tags by direct assignment. Note this will
remove existing tags so use it with attention.

```ruby
@user.tag_list = "awesome, slick, hefty"
@user.save
@user.reload
@user.tags
=> [#<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 1, name: "awesome", taggings_count: 1>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 2, name: "slick", taggings_count: 1>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 3, name: "hefty", taggings_count: 1>]
```

With the defined context in model, you have multiple new methods at disposal
to manage and view the tags in the context. For example, with `:skill` context
these methods are added to the model: `skill_list`(and `skill_list.add`, `skill_list.remove`
`skill_list=`), `skills`(plural), `skill_counts`.

```ruby
@user.skill_list = "joking, clowning, boxing"
@user.save
@user.reload
@user.skills
=> [#<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 1, name: "joking", taggings_count: 1>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 2, name: "clowning", taggings_count: 1>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 3, name: "boxing", taggings_count: 1>]

@user.skill_list.add("coding")

@user.skill_list
# => ["joking", "clowning", "boxing", "coding"]

@another_user = User.new(:name => "Alice")
@another_user.skill_list.add("clowning")
@another_user.save

User.skill_counts
=> [#<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 1, name: "joking", taggings_count: 1>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 2, name: "clowning", taggings_count: 2>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 3, name: "boxing", taggings_count: 1>]
```

To preserve the order in which tags are created use `acts_as_ordered_taggable`:

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  # Alias for acts_as_ordered_taggable_on :tags
  acts_as_ordered_taggable
  acts_as_ordered_taggable_on :skills, :interests
end

@user = User.new(:name => "Bobby")
@user.tag_list = "east, south"
@user.save

@user.tag_list = "north, east, south, west"
@user.save

@user.reload
@user.tag_list # => ["north", "east", "south", "west"]
```

### Finding most or least used tags

You can find the most or least used tags by using:

```ruby
MakeTaggable::Tag.most_used
MakeTaggable::Tag.least_used
```

You can also filter the results by passing the method a limit, however the default limit is 20.

```ruby
MakeTaggable::Tag.most_used(10)
MakeTaggable::Tag.least_used(10)
```

### Finding Tagged Objects

Make Taggable uses scopes to create an association for tags.
This way you can mix and match to filter down your results.

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  make_taggable :tags, :skills
  scope :by_join_date, order("created_at DESC")
end

User.tagged_with("awesome").by_join_date
User.tagged_with("awesome").by_join_date.paginate(:page => params[:page], :per_page => 20)

# Find users that matches all given tags:
# NOTE: This only matches users that have the exact set of specified tags. If a user has additional tags, they are not returned.
User.tagged_with(["awesome", "cool"], :match_all => true)

# Find users with any of the specified tags:
User.tagged_with(["awesome", "cool"], :any => true)

# Find users that have not been tagged with awesome or cool:
User.tagged_with(["awesome", "cool"], :exclude => true)

# Find users with any of the tags based on context:
User.tagged_with(['awesome', 'cool'], :on => :tags, :any => true).tagged_with(['smart', 'shy'], :on => :skills, :any => true)
```

You can also use `:wild => true` option along with `:any` or `:exclude` option. It will be looking for `%awesome%` and `%cool%` in SQL.

__Tip:__ `User.tagged_with([])` or `User.tagged_with('')` will return `[]`, an empty set of records.


### Relationships

You can find objects of the same type based on similar tags on certain contexts.
Also, objects will be returned in descending order based on the total number of
matched tags.

```ruby
@bobby = User.find_by_name("Bobby")
@bobby.skill_list # => ["jogging", "diving"]

@frankie = User.find_by_name("Frankie")
@frankie.skill_list # => ["hacking"]

@tom = User.find_by_name("Tom")
@tom.skill_list # => ["hacking", "jogging", "diving"]

@tom.find_related_skills # => [<User name="Bobby">, <User name="Frankie">]
@bobby.find_related_skills # => [<User name="Tom">]
@frankie.find_related_skills # => [<User name="Tom">]
```

### Dynamic Tag Contexts

In addition to the generated tag contexts in the definition, it is also possible
to allow for dynamic tag contexts (this could be user generated tag contexts!)

```ruby
@user = User.new(:name => "Bobby")
@user.set_tag_list_on(:customs, "same, as, tag, list")
@user.tag_list_on(:customs) # => ["same", "as", "tag", "list"]
@user.save
@user.tags_on(:customs) # => [<Tag name='same'>,...]
@user.tag_counts_on(:customs)
User.tagged_with("same", :on => :customs) # => [@user]
```

### Tag Parsers

If you want to change how tags are parsed, you can define your own implementation:

```ruby
class MyParser < MakeTaggable::GenericParser
  def parse
    MakeTaggable::TagList.new.tap do |tag_list|
      tag_list.add @tag_list.split('|')
    end
  end
end
```

Now you can use this parser, passing it as parameter:

```ruby
@user = User.new(:name => "Bobby")
@user.tag_list = "east, south"
@user.tag_list.add("north|west", parser: MyParser)
@user.tag_list # => ["north", "east", "south", "west"]

# Or also:
@user.tag_list.parser = MyParser
@user.tag_list.add("north|west")
@user.tag_list # => ["north", "east", "south", "west"]
```

Or change it globally:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.default_parser = MyParser
@user = User.new(:name => "Bobby")
@user.tag_list = "east|south"
@user.tag_list # => ["east", "south"]
```

### Tag Ownership

Tags can have owners:

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  acts_as_tagger
end

class Photo < ActiveRecord::Base
  make_taggable :locations
end

@some_user.tag(@some_photo, :with => "paris, normandy", :on => :locations)
@some_user.owned_taggings
@some_user.owned_tags
Photo.tagged_with("paris", :on => :locations, :owned_by => @some_user)
@some_photo.locations_from(@some_user) # => ["paris", "normandy"]
@some_photo.owner_tags_on(@some_user, :locations) # => [#<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 1, name: "paris">...]
@some_photo.owner_tags_on(nil, :locations) # => Ownerships equivalent to saying @some_photo.locations
@some_user.tag(@some_photo, :with => "paris, normandy", :on => :locations, :skip_save => true) #won't save @some_photo object
```

#### Working with Owned Tags
Note that `tag_list` only returns tags whose taggings do not have an owner. Continuing from the above example:
```ruby
@some_photo.tag_list # => []
```
To retrieve all tags of an object (regardless of ownership) or if only one owner can tag the object, use `all_tags_list`.

##### Adding owned tags
Note that **owned tags** are added all at once, in the form of ***comma seperated tags*** in string.
Also, when you try to add **owned tags** again, it simply overwrites the previous set of **owned tags**.
So to append tags in previously existing **owned tags** list, go as follows:
```ruby
def add_owned_tag
    @some_item = Item.find(params[:id])
    owned_tag_list = @some_item.all_tags_list - @some_item.tag_list
    owned_tag_list += [(params[:tag])]
    @tag_owner.tag(@some_item, :with => stringify(owned_tag_list), :on => :tags)
    @some_item.save
end

def stringify(tag_list)
    tag_list.inject('') { |memo, tag| memo += (tag + ',') }[0..-1]
end
```
##### Removing owned tags
Similarly as above, removing will be as follows:
```ruby
def remove_owned_tag
    @some_item = Item.find(params[:id])
    owned_tag_list = @some_item.all_tags_list - @some_item.tag_list
    owned_tag_list -= [(params[:tag])]
    @tag_owner.tag(@some_item, :with => stringify(owned_tag_list), :on => :tags)
    @some_item.save
end
```

### Dirty objects

```ruby
@bobby = User.find_by_name("Bobby")
@bobby.skill_list # => ["jogging", "diving"]

@bobby.skill_list_changed? #=> false
@bobby.changes #=> {}

@bobby.skill_list = "swimming"
@bobby.changes.should == {"skill_list"=>["jogging, diving", ["swimming"]]}
@bobby.skill_list_changed? #=> true

@bobby.skill_list_change.should == ["jogging, diving", ["swimming"]]
```

### Tag cloud calculations

To construct tag clouds, the frequency of each tag needs to be calculated.
Because we specified `make_taggable` on the `User` class, we can
get a calculation of all the tag counts by using `User.tag_counts_on(:customs)`. But what if we wanted a tag count for
a single user's posts? To achieve this we call tag_counts on the association:

```ruby
User.find(:first).posts.tag_counts_on(:tags)
```

A helper is included to assist with generating tag clouds.

Here is an example that generates a tag cloud.

Helper:

```ruby
module PostsHelper
  include MakeTaggable::TagsHelper
end
```

Controller:

```ruby
class PostController < ApplicationController
  def tag_cloud
    @tags = Post.tag_counts_on(:tags)
  end
end
```

View:

```erb
<% tag_cloud(@tags, %w(css1 css2 css3 css4)) do |tag, css_class| %>
  <%= link_to tag.name, { :action => :tag, :id => tag.name }, :class => css_class %>
<% end %>
```

CSS:

```css
.css1 { font-size: 1.0em; }
.css2 { font-size: 1.2em; }
.css3 { font-size: 1.4em; }
.css4 { font-size: 1.6em; }
```

## Configuration

If you would like to remove unused tag objects after removing taggings, add:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.remove_unused_tags = true
```

If you want force tags to be saved downcased:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.force_lowercase = true
```

If you want tags to be saved parametrized (you can redefine to_param as well):

```ruby
MakeTaggable.force_parameterize = true
```

If you would like tags to be case-sensitive and not use LIKE queries for creation:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.strict_case_match = true
```

If you would like to have an exact match covering special characters with MySql:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.force_binary_collation = true
```

If you would like to specify table names:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.tags_table = 'aato_tags'
MakeTaggable.taggings_table = 'aato_taggings'
```

If you want to change the default delimiter (it defaults to ','). You can also pass in an array of delimiters such as ([',', '|']):

```ruby
MakeTaggable.delimiter = ','
```

*NOTE 1: SQLite by default can't upcase or downcase multibyte characters, resulting in unwanted behavior. Load the SQLite ICU extension for proper handle of such characters. [See docs](http://www.sqlite.org/src/artifact?ci=trunk&filename=ext/icu/README.txt)*


#### Upgrading

see [UPGRADING](UPGRADING.md)

## Contributors

We have a long list of valued contributors. [Check them all](https://github.com/mbleigh/acts-as-taggable-on/contributors)

## Compatibility

Versions 0.6.x is compatible with Ruby 2.5 + and Rails 6.


## TODO
- Review migrations indexes they seem excessive looking at the schema.
- See if the newer version of ActiveRecord or arel can be used instead of the MySQL workarounds.

## Testing

Make Taggable uses RSpec for its test coverage. Inside the gem
directory, you can run the specs with:

```shell
bundle
rake spec
```

You can run all the tests across all the Rails versions by running `rake appraise`.  If you'd also like to [run the tests across all rubies and databases as configured for Travis CI, install and run `wwtd`](https://github.com/grosser/wwtd).


## License
MIT

Commit message:

Update Read-me and remove Travis.

README.md, after:

# MakeTaggable
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/make_taggable.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/make_taggable)
![StandardRB](https://github.com/MatthewKennedy/make_taggable/workflows/StandardRB/badge.svg)
![Tests](https://github.com/MatthewKennedy/make_taggable/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)

MakeTaggable is a fork of acts-as-taggable-on v6.5 with code updates and a new set of migrations. All credit goes to those who contributed before acts-as-taggable-on became MakeTaggable: Michael Bleigh & Joost Baaij.

Why fork acts-as-taggable-on? Act As Taggable On appears stuck with a set of legacy migrations from rails pre [6.0] that added and removed indexes so much that the migrations do not run on a fresh install using MySQL.

For the PostgreSQL users, this is not an issue, but if you have an app or gem that used acts-as-taggable-on, you can no longer test against MySQL, so it seems a fresh start would be useful to clear out any legacy issues and move forward.

## Installation

To use make_taggable, run the followng from the root of your application:

```shell
bundle add make_taggable
```

#### Post Installation

Install migrations

```shell
# For the latest versions :
rails make_taggable_engine:install:migrations
```

Review the generated migrations then migrate :
```shell
rails db:migrate
```

#### For MySql users
You can circumvent at any time the problem of special characters [issue 623](https://github.com/mbleigh/acts-as-taggable-on/issues/623) by setting in an initializer file:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.force_binary_collation = true
```

Or by running this rake task:

```shell
rails make_taggable_engine:tag_names:collate_bin
```

See the Configuration section for more details.

## Usage

Setup

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  make_taggable # Alias for make_taggable :tags
  make_taggable :skills, :interests
end

class UsersController < ApplicationController
  def user_params
    params.require(:user).permit(:name, :tag_list) ## Rails 4 strong params usage
  end
end

@user = User.new(:name => "Bobby")
```

Add and remove a single tag

```ruby
@user.tag_list.add("awesome")   # add a single tag. alias for <<
@user.tag_list.remove("awesome") # remove a single tag
@user.save # save to persist tag_list
```

Add and remove multiple tags in an array

```ruby
@user.tag_list.add("awesome", "slick")
@user.tag_list.remove("awesome", "slick")
@user.save
```

You can also add and remove tags in format of String. This would
be convenient in some cases such as handling tag input param in a String.

Pay attention you need to add `parse: true` as option in this case.

You may also want to take a look at delimiter in the string. The default
is comma `,` so you don't need to do anything here. However, if you made
a change on delimiter setting, make sure the string will match. See
[configuration](#configuration) for more about delimiter.

```ruby
@user.tag_list.add("awesome, slick", parse: true)
@user.tag_list.remove("awesome, slick", parse: true)
```

You can also add and remove tags by direct assignment. Note this will
remove existing tags so use it with attention.

```ruby
@user.tag_list = "awesome, slick, hefty"
@user.save
@user.reload
@user.tags
=> [#<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 1, name: "awesome", taggings_count: 1>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 2, name: "slick", taggings_count: 1>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 3, name: "hefty", taggings_count: 1>]
```

With the defined context in model, you have multiple new methods at disposal
to manage and view the tags in the context. For example, with `:skill` context
these methods are added to the model: `skill_list`(and `skill_list.add`, `skill_list.remove`
`skill_list=`), `skills`(plural), `skill_counts`.

```ruby
@user.skill_list = "joking, clowning, boxing"
@user.save
@user.reload
@user.skills
=> [#<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 1, name: "joking", taggings_count: 1>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 2, name: "clowning", taggings_count: 1>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 3, name: "boxing", taggings_count: 1>]

@user.skill_list.add("coding")

@user.skill_list
# => ["joking", "clowning", "boxing", "coding"]

@another_user = User.new(:name => "Alice")
@another_user.skill_list.add("clowning")
@another_user.save

User.skill_counts
=> [#<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 1, name: "joking", taggings_count: 1>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 2, name: "clowning", taggings_count: 2>,
 #<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 3, name: "boxing", taggings_count: 1>]
```

To preserve the order in which tags are created use `acts_as_ordered_taggable`:

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  # Alias for acts_as_ordered_taggable_on :tags
  acts_as_ordered_taggable
  acts_as_ordered_taggable_on :skills, :interests
end

@user = User.new(:name => "Bobby")
@user.tag_list = "east, south"
@user.save

@user.tag_list = "north, east, south, west"
@user.save

@user.reload
@user.tag_list # => ["north", "east", "south", "west"]
```

### Finding most or least used tags

You can find the most or least used tags by using:

```ruby
MakeTaggable::Tag.most_used
MakeTaggable::Tag.least_used
```

You can also filter the results by passing the method a limit, however the default limit is 20.

```ruby
MakeTaggable::Tag.most_used(10)
MakeTaggable::Tag.least_used(10)
```

### Finding Tagged Objects

Make Taggable uses scopes to create an association for tags.
This way you can mix and match to filter down your results.

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  make_taggable :tags, :skills
  scope :by_join_date, order("created_at DESC")
end

User.tagged_with("awesome").by_join_date
User.tagged_with("awesome").by_join_date.paginate(:page => params[:page], :per_page => 20)

# Find users that matches all given tags:
# NOTE: This only matches users that have the exact set of specified tags. If a user has additional tags, they are not returned.
User.tagged_with(["awesome", "cool"], :match_all => true)

# Find users with any of the specified tags:
User.tagged_with(["awesome", "cool"], :any => true)

# Find users that have not been tagged with awesome or cool:
User.tagged_with(["awesome", "cool"], :exclude => true)

# Find users with any of the tags based on context:
User.tagged_with(['awesome', 'cool'], :on => :tags, :any => true).tagged_with(['smart', 'shy'], :on => :skills, :any => true)
```

You can also use `:wild => true` option along with `:any` or `:exclude` option. It will be looking for `%awesome%` and `%cool%` in SQL.

__Tip:__ `User.tagged_with([])` or `User.tagged_with('')` will return `[]`, an empty set of records.


### Relationships

You can find objects of the same type based on similar tags on certain contexts.
Also, objects will be returned in descending order based on the total number of
matched tags.

```ruby
@bobby = User.find_by_name("Bobby")
@bobby.skill_list # => ["jogging", "diving"]

@frankie = User.find_by_name("Frankie")
@frankie.skill_list # => ["hacking"]

@tom = User.find_by_name("Tom")
@tom.skill_list # => ["hacking", "jogging", "diving"]

@tom.find_related_skills # => [<User name="Bobby">, <User name="Frankie">]
@bobby.find_related_skills # => [<User name="Tom">]
@frankie.find_related_skills # => [<User name="Tom">]
```

### Dynamic Tag Contexts

In addition to the generated tag contexts in the definition, it is also possible
to allow for dynamic tag contexts (this could be user generated tag contexts!)

```ruby
@user = User.new(:name => "Bobby")
@user.set_tag_list_on(:customs, "same, as, tag, list")
@user.tag_list_on(:customs) # => ["same", "as", "tag", "list"]
@user.save
@user.tags_on(:customs) # => [<Tag name='same'>,...]
@user.tag_counts_on(:customs)
User.tagged_with("same", :on => :customs) # => [@user]
```

### Tag Parsers

If you want to change how tags are parsed, you can define your own implementation:

```ruby
class MyParser < MakeTaggable::GenericParser
  def parse
    MakeTaggable::TagList.new.tap do |tag_list|
      tag_list.add @tag_list.split('|')
    end
  end
end
```

Now you can use this parser, passing it as parameter:

```ruby
@user = User.new(:name => "Bobby")
@user.tag_list = "east, south"
@user.tag_list.add("north|west", parser: MyParser)
@user.tag_list # => ["north", "east", "south", "west"]

# Or also:
@user.tag_list.parser = MyParser
@user.tag_list.add("north|west")
@user.tag_list # => ["north", "east", "south", "west"]
```

Or change it globally:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.default_parser = MyParser
@user = User.new(:name => "Bobby")
@user.tag_list = "east|south"
@user.tag_list # => ["east", "south"]
```

### Tag Ownership

Tags can have owners:

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  acts_as_tagger
end

class Photo < ActiveRecord::Base
  make_taggable :locations
end

@some_user.tag(@some_photo, :with => "paris, normandy", :on => :locations)
@some_user.owned_taggings
@some_user.owned_tags
Photo.tagged_with("paris", :on => :locations, :owned_by => @some_user)
@some_photo.locations_from(@some_user) # => ["paris", "normandy"]
@some_photo.owner_tags_on(@some_user, :locations) # => [#<MakeTaggable::Tag id: 1, name: "paris">...]
@some_photo.owner_tags_on(nil, :locations) # => Ownerships equivalent to saying @some_photo.locations
@some_user.tag(@some_photo, :with => "paris, normandy", :on => :locations, :skip_save => true) #won't save @some_photo object
```

#### Working with Owned Tags
Note that `tag_list` only returns tags whose taggings do not have an owner. Continuing from the above example:
```ruby
@some_photo.tag_list # => []
```
To retrieve all tags of an object (regardless of ownership) or if only one owner can tag the object, use `all_tags_list`.

##### Adding owned tags
Note that **owned tags** are added all at once, in the form of ***comma seperated tags*** in string.
Also, when you try to add **owned tags** again, it simply overwrites the previous set of **owned tags**.
So to append tags in previously existing **owned tags** list, go as follows:
```ruby
def add_owned_tag
    @some_item = Item.find(params[:id])
    owned_tag_list = @some_item.all_tags_list - @some_item.tag_list
    owned_tag_list += [(params[:tag])]
    @tag_owner.tag(@some_item, :with => stringify(owned_tag_list), :on => :tags)
    @some_item.save
end

def stringify(tag_list)
    tag_list.inject('') { |memo, tag| memo += (tag + ',') }[0..-1]
end
```
##### Removing owned tags
Similarly as above, removing will be as follows:
```ruby
def remove_owned_tag
    @some_item = Item.find(params[:id])
    owned_tag_list = @some_item.all_tags_list - @some_item.tag_list
    owned_tag_list -= [(params[:tag])]
    @tag_owner.tag(@some_item, :with => stringify(owned_tag_list), :on => :tags)
    @some_item.save
end
```

### Dirty objects

```ruby
@bobby = User.find_by_name("Bobby")
@bobby.skill_list # => ["jogging", "diving"]

@bobby.skill_list_changed? #=> false
@bobby.changes #=> {}

@bobby.skill_list = "swimming"
@bobby.changes.should == {"skill_list"=>["jogging, diving", ["swimming"]]}
@bobby.skill_list_changed? #=> true

@bobby.skill_list_change.should == ["jogging, diving", ["swimming"]]
```

### Tag cloud calculations

To construct tag clouds, the frequency of each tag needs to be calculated.
Because we specified `make_taggable` on the `User` class, we can
get a calculation of all the tag counts by using `User.tag_counts_on(:customs)`. But what if we wanted a tag count for
a single user's posts? To achieve this we call tag_counts on the association:

```ruby
User.find(:first).posts.tag_counts_on(:tags)
```

A helper is included to assist with generating tag clouds.

Here is an example that generates a tag cloud.

Helper:

```ruby
module PostsHelper
  include MakeTaggable::TagsHelper
end
```

Controller:

```ruby
class PostController < ApplicationController
  def tag_cloud
    @tags = Post.tag_counts_on(:tags)
  end
end
```

View:

```erb
<% tag_cloud(@tags, %w(css1 css2 css3 css4)) do |tag, css_class| %>
  <%= link_to tag.name, { :action => :tag, :id => tag.name }, :class => css_class %>
<% end %>
```

CSS:

```css
.css1 { font-size: 1.0em; }
.css2 { font-size: 1.2em; }
.css3 { font-size: 1.4em; }
.css4 { font-size: 1.6em; }
```

## Configuration

If you would like to remove unused tag objects after removing taggings, add:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.remove_unused_tags = true
```

If you want force tags to be saved downcased:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.force_lowercase = true
```

If you want tags to be saved parametrized (you can redefine to_param as well):

```ruby
MakeTaggable.force_parameterize = true
```

If you would like tags to be case-sensitive and not use LIKE queries for creation:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.strict_case_match = true
```

If you would like to have an exact match covering special characters with MySql:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.force_binary_collation = true
```

If you would like to specify table names:

```ruby
MakeTaggable.tags_table = 'aato_tags'
MakeTaggable.taggings_table = 'aato_taggings'
```

If you want to change the default delimiter (it defaults to ','). You can also pass in an array of delimiters such as ([',', '|']):

```ruby
MakeTaggable.delimiter = ','
```

*NOTE 1: SQLite by default can't upcase or downcase multibyte characters, resulting in unwanted behavior. Load the SQLite ICU extension for proper handle of such characters. [See docs](http://www.sqlite.org/src/artifact?ci=trunk&filename=ext/icu/README.txt)*


#### Upgrading

see [UPGRADING](UPGRADING.md)

## Contributors

We have a long list of valued contributors. [Check them all](https://github.com/mbleigh/acts-as-taggable-on/contributors)

## Compatibility

Versions 0.6.x is compatible with Ruby 2.5 + and Rails 6.


## TODO
- Review migrations indexes they seem excessive looking at the schema.
- See if the newer version of ActiveRecord or arel can be used instead of the MySQL workarounds.

## Testing

Make Taggable uses RSpec for its test coverage. Inside the gem
directory, you can run the specs with:

Set up the test enviroment.
```shell
bundle exec update

bundle exec rake test_app
```

Run tests.
```shell
bundle exec rake
```

You can run all the tests across all the Rails versions by running `bundle exec rake appraise`.  If you'd also like to [run the tests across all rubies and databases as configured for Travis CI, install and run `wwtd`](https://github.com/grosser/wwtd).


## License
MIT
